(PHONE RINGS)
- JESSE: Even if it was a dream...
...I feel Darling reached out to me
through the Hotline.
I have a feeling he and Trench won't be
the only colours from beyond.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE, MUFFLED SPEECH)
Problem in the Foundation?
That was Ahti's vacation spot.
We need to check this out.
Dark...
Quiet...
Transdimentional.
This place really suits Ahti.
So that etching is the door.
Okay.
Let's try opening it.
No time for sightseeing.
The Board said this was an emergency.
(MACHINE STARTS)
Looks like no one's been down here in a while.
Hm...
Crystals are kinda pretty.
Emily would be having a few days down here.
What's that light?
- MARSHALL: The Foundation.
Bottom of the Oldest House.
Stop the Hiss.
- JESSE: Marshall?
How is she on the Hotline?
Unless...
...she's dead.
Jesus, she seems like the kind of woman
who could survive anything.
###
Those structures...
Is that... the Astral Plane?
How is that possible?
This is worse than I thought.
I need to figure out what's going on.
### using pickaxes now?
The Astral Plan is cutting into our dimension.
What if this is happening on the upper floors?
It'll destroy the bureau.
I wish I brought Emily with me.
### my Head of Research right about now.
Marshall?
Marshall! You're alive!
Wait! It's Jesse!
The director!
Woah!
This place is huge!
Marshall?
Can you hear me?
She was on the Hotline so that person
couldn't have been Marshall, right?
One problem at a time.
Let's see what's going on
with that pillar first.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE, MUFFLED SPEECH)
So I can only choose one?
I thought I was done with these tests.
Okay, let's review...
This broken pillar is called...
...The Nail.
It was broken by...
...something and now the Astral Plane is bleeding
into the Foundation which will destroy the Oldest House...
...the bureau and everyone inside.
I need to find four locks, or keys, or whatever,
to stop that from happening.
But I'm the director. I've handled worse.
This should be simple.
-ish.
- MARSHALL: The damn gun.
Faden.
Not sure she's ready.
- JESSE: I'm here, aren't I?
I saved the bureau once,
and I'll do it again.
Woah!
I'm in the Astral Plane?
This bleed is just getting worse and worse.
That's the cave's sand.
Looks like the Astral Bleed goes both ways.
Hiss in the Astral Plane? (SCOFFS)
###
Another etching.
Like the one I used to get in here.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE, MUFFLED SPEECH)
Is this the lock/key the Board told me about?
Just doing my job.
First one down.
Director Faden's got this covered.
- EMILY: Jesse! Hey!
- JESSE: Emily? How did she get down here?
What are you doing down here, Emily?
- EMILY: What do you mean?
You called me down, remember?
- JESSE: I'm pretty sure I didn't.
- EMILY: No, that's right. You didn't.
But then...
I remember you needed to come here.
I mean, you even told me how to get in.
Let's just chalk it up to synchronousity
so we can get to work.
- JESSE: She ### everything in ###.
The Board called me down here
to deal with the situation.
The Astral Plane is...
- EMILY: ...coliding with our world, I know.
Isn't it fascinating?
I never even consider that the Astral Plane could be a
physical volume extending beyond this dimensional container.
The bleed is localised to this area.
But its growthrate seems steady.
Given time, it will consume the entire bureau.
And possibly beyond.
- JESSE: That's what I'm here to stop.
The Board told me to fix the Nail over there
by dismantling four locks in the Astral Plane.
Funny, I think it's put itself back together a bit.
- EMILY: So that could be due to
the Law Inverse Exchange.
For every associated component you remove,
this Nail reconstructs.
We're possibly some variation of anti-sympathy.
Don't worry, I'll look into it.
Did you notice all the bureau infrastructure?
It looks like there was a research team station
down here at some point.
You think Darling knew about this?
- JESSE: I'd put money on that.
That reminds me...
Have you seen Marshall?
She contacted me over the Hotline but...
...then I saw her walking around.
- EMILY: I haven't seen her.
The Hotline only connects to ### entities...
...or... dead people.
But Marshall's proven time to time again
that she is a survivor.
- JESSE: That's exactly what I thought.
- EMILY: Anyway, I've been looking into
the minerals growing down here.
Have you noticed how they insist
on maintaining a certain form?
Maybe some sort of a state memory,
or they consciously prefer certain shape or...
- JESSE: I think we're on a clock here, Emily.
I need to stop the Astral Bleeding
before it brings the Oldest House down.
See what you can find out
from the Nail in the meantime.
And send out some rangers
to look for Marshall.
She may be in trouble.
- EMILY: Will do, Jesse.
If you see anything interesting,
remember to take detail notes.
The rangers have tapped into an old radio network
they found around the Foundation.
So if you need backup just call them
in one of the stations.
- JESSE: How did the Hiss
get into the Foundation?
- EMILY: Same way we did, I imagine.
You need to remember that the Hiss
are the embodiment of persistence.
Their nature seems to be one of ###
to find every possible vunerability and exploit it.
Their only goal is consumption.
- JESSE: I'm sure there're plenty
of goodies for them down here.
The Nail, for instance.
- EMILY: If the Hiss could corrupt the Nail
I'm sure they would've by now.
It must uninterest them
in its broken state.
It could be destroyed by numerous unknown
paranatural materials I'm sure lying around.
These are the roots of the Oldest House.
The Hiss will find plenty of ways to make trouble.
- JESSE: They're pretty good at that.
So you've never heard of the Foundation, huh?
- EMILY: I haven't even seen the name reference.
It's clearly it's highly classified but...
...for what reason?
The problem with these kinds of close-off
hidden areas is that they will likely sealed for good reason.
But now no one is left to tell us
what that reason was.
- JESSE: Any guesses why the bureau
would hide something like this?
- EMILY: I only know what I've observed.
This place is spacely rigid, which means
it doesn't shift like the rest of the Oldest House.
###
- JESSE: The Astral Plane ###.
So let me get this straight.
The Astral Plane is bleeding into the Foundation.
- EMILY: Correct!
- JESSE: And that's happening
because the Nail is damaged.
- EMILY: I'd say it's a bit more than damaged
but yes, that is my understanding.
- JESSE: So what's the connection between
the Nail and the Astral Plane?
- EMILY: It's a good question!
I was picture Object of Power ###
our plane and the Astral.
If the Nail has the similar relationship then
maybe it's more accurate to think of it like plumming.
Now that the Nail is busted,
sewage is gusing everywhere.
- JESSE: Not the prettiest metaphor.
I should get back out there.
- EMILY: Agree. The Astral Bleed won't stop itself.
- MARSHALL: The worst I've ever seen.
Hiss take the Nail.
End of the world.
- JESSE: So I can't let the Hiss take the Nail.
Not a problem!
I know how to handle them.
I need a ranger sent to this location ###.
Another etching.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE &
MUFFLED SPEECH)
- JESSE: Hello?
Board, are you there?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE &
MUFFLED SPEECH)
- JESSE: Okay, what the hell is going on?
Wait! I'm back here?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE &
MUFFLED SPEECH)
- JESSE: Wasn't my idea.
Blame the eyeball.
Former?
You mean the eyeball?
I don't even know what that is.
But it is giving me something you won't.
I don't like you deciding
what I can/can't have.
I'm getting pretty tired of being
jerked around the Astral Plane.
If you're listening, I want some answers!
Uh...
Hi there!
It was nice of you to give me
something the Board wouldn't.
What are you getting out of it?
So I'm just supposed to believe your
particularly charitable...
...uh...
...whatever you are?
Hungry?
I mean...
Yeah! Actually, I'd love
a sandwich or something.
That's not what you meant, was it?
Are you part of the Board?
Or used to be?
Okay.
So you split because the Board blamed you for...
###
Do I need to rescue someone?
I don't know what I expected.
Listen.
This's been great, but...
I have to go.
Thanks for your help,
and... uh...
Stay out of trouble.
What was the Former trying
to tell me about the Board?
Should I trust either of them?
- RANGER: You got this, director!
- JESSE: Who should I be listening to?
Weird entity A or B?
Or neither. Let's just ### for now.
The bureau is in danger.
We know we need to repair the Nail.
The Astral Plane won't break reality on my watch.
There's the etching.
###
I'm...
...overthinking this whole Board - Former thing.
They can sort out their own business
so as long as it doesn't get in my way.
Obsessing over these problems
is something Trench would do.
But I've got my intuition.
And you.
- EMILY: The Nail is almost repaired.
You really do have an act
for this kind of work!
- JESSE: Any progress with the Nail?
- EMILY: Of course.
I've been busy with surface analysis.
Its composition is remarkably similar
to ### materials found in the Astral Plane.
But it altered itself
between my observations.
### like it doesn't like being examined.
- JESSE: So the Nail is from
the Astral Plane?
- EMILY: Not necessarily.
If we assume that, we're suddenly
facing a lot of new questions.
How did something so large
get out of the Astral Plane?
How did it get inside the Oldest House?
Did a Threshold bring it in?
Did people?
Maybe through the motel.
- JESSE: Maybe it was always here.
- EMILY: Mm...
Doubtful.
- JESSE: Have you spent any time
looking into the crystals growing around here?
- EMILY: As if I could resist!
The biggest question is where it comes from.
A Threshold, or is it native to the Foundation?
But if so, why doesn't it grows
in the rest of the Oldest House?
The fact that they return to an earlier state when damaged
is severely inconsistent with our reality ### linear time.
So either they're A: Partially conscious...
...or B: Organic elements that are foreign to
and yet influenced by our dimension.
The jury's still out.
Have you learnt anything about the crystals?
- JESSE: I have a power that let me stretch them.
- EMILY: Huh!
- JESSE: Yep!
Any idea what Marshall
would be doing down here?
- EMILY: That information
is on a need-to-know basis, Faden!
Sorry! I couldn't resist!
But honestly, I've never have much
interaction with Marshall.
She only came to me
when she was looking for Darling.
But this is Helen Marshall
we're talking about.
The woman who single-handedly
dealt with the ### AWE.
### down here is because she needs to be.
- JESSE: Wow.
Clearly she couldn't handle this one on her own.
I'll see you later, Emily.
- EMILY: Good luck!
Take notes!
- JESSE: This area looks... newer.
Is it from the upper floors?
There's something behind
the Hiss barrier.
This is the director.
I need a ranger at this location immediately.
- RANGER: We're in this together!
- JESSE: (LAUGHS) Someone calls a plummer!
But no one's around to hear that.
(ALARM SOUND)
- ROBOT VOICE: Warning! Altered Item detected
in ###.
###
- JESSE: So that's the Altered Item.
Looks pretty secured.
No power.
Typical.
I should hire someone
who builds smaller machines.
- ROBOT VOICE: ###
No Altered materials detected in the area.
Personel may now safely enter.
Have a "bureau-ful" day!
- MARSHALL: Hiss got in.
Boom!
The Nail.
Pile of smoking rubble.
- JESSE: Marshall blew up the Nail?
What the hell was she thinking?
Alright.
This is the last one.
I can't believe Marshall ### plan
was to blow up the Nail.
And she thought I wasn't ready.
There. Easy ###.
Fuck!
But that's the last one!
I-I fixed it, didn't I?
Holy shit!
Oh, thank god!
What the hell was all that?
Things should be better now. Not worse!
Emily will know.
I hope.
- EMILY: Jesse! We need to talk!
What did you do?
What is causing these tremors?
- JESSE: I thought you could tell me!
I completed the four rituals just like
the Board told me to.
The Astral Bleed should've stopped.
- EMILY: It has stopped.
The Nail is repaired.
But we have a new problem.
My analysis of the Nail indicates that it is
literally a piece of the Astral Plane.
Or possibly ### containing the Astral Plane.
Or both.
Either way...
Right now, both dimensions are vibrating
in completely incompatible frequencies.
### incalculable!
It's going to destroy both the planes.
- JESSE: I messed this all up!
Maybe Marshall was right to destroy the Nail.
I should've left it in pieces.
- EMILY: Then the Astral Plane
would still be leaking in.
Sometimes, there's no right answers, Jesse.
We need more information.
- JESSE: No!
I need to fix this, NOW!
I'll just...
I'll figure something out.
- EMILY: No, we should really make a plan.
The tremor is originating from directly
below us. But we don't know what--
- JESSE: Perfect!
I'll head down and take care of
whatever's going on.
Just do what you can from here.
- EMILY: Jesse, you can't just--
- JESSE: I have to, Emily!
I'm the director!
This is on me.
I hope I know what I'm doing.
That was just the top of the Nail?
How much deeper does the Foundation go?
The crystals are growing like crazy.
###
- MARSHALL: Astral Spiking.
HRA was damaged.
The Board ###.
- JESSE: When Marshall blew up the Nail...
...the Board attacked her.
I don't fucking like it.
Director Faden here.
I need a ranger dispatched at my position.
- RANGER: Reinforcements are here!
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
- JESSE: Marshall?
You're...
...alive!
- MARSHALL: Soon, you will no longer
recognise us...
...or yourself, or him, or her, or them.
Family is dead.
The walls are broken but...
(DISTORTED VOICE) ###.
- JESSE: Goddammit!
These fuckers take everything!
I'm not letting you take this!
Out of ammo?
Sorry I wasn't there to help, Marshall.
The Nail is corrupted.
That explains why the Board wasn't answering
what's causing the quakes.
Marshall came down here to stop this.
I should've been with her.
I could've saved her.
But I can still save everyone else.
Well, fuck you too!
Oh...
I'll be sure too.
Let's play it smart.
They don't need to know I'm onto them.
Not yet, anyway.
The Nail is secured.
The Hiss can't touch it.
I can't undo the Astral Bleed in the Foundation
but at least it stopped.
- EMILY: Along with ###.
You did it, Jesse!
Did you ever find Marshall?
- JESSE: I did.
She's gone.
She died thinking she'd save the bureau.
Not a bad way to go.
I wasn't ready for this crisis.
### coming.
But I promise...
...I'll be ready for the next one.
I mean...
...what good of a director who can't
hold her bureau together.
I thought I know how to handle things.
Now that I'm the director.
Clearly, it's not that simple.
I need to choose a director for the bureau.
It should be one that serves our goals.
Not the Board's.
Or whatever those are.
I need to lead my way.